README.md, before:

# Contrastive Model for Ataxia Severity Assessment

This repository contains the official implementation of the paper "Contrastive Learning Model for Wearable-based Ataxia Assessment."

## Acknowledgments
The model code is based on the implementation of the paper [TS2Vec: Towards Universal Representation of Time Series (AAAI 22)](https://github.com/zhihanyue/ts2vec), licensed under the MIT License.

## Requirements

* Python 3.9
* matplotlib==3.6.2
* numpy==1.23.5
* pandas==2.0.3
* PyYAML==6.0.2
* scikit_learn==1.2.0
* scipy==1.9.3
* seaborn==0.13.2
* tabulate==0.9.0
* torch==1.12.1


To install the dependencies, run:


```bash

pip install -r requirements.txt

```

## Data

The dataset is not publicly available due to privacy concerns and the requirement for IRB approval. 

Please contact us if you are interested in accessing the dataset.


## Usage


### Training the Contrastive Learning Model
Run the following command to train the contrastive learning model:


```
python train.py 
```

You can customize the training settings by modifying the configuration file in ```config.yaml```.



### Evaluation on Downstream Tasks
To evaluate the trained model on downstream tasks, such as ataxia severity assessment and classification of ataxia vs. healthy subjects, refer to: 

```
Downstream_task.ipynb
```

Commit message:

- Upload the trained models - Update README.md - change the model folder name for Downstream_task.ipynb

README.md, after:

# Contrastive Model for Ataxia Severity Assessment

This repository contains the official implementation of the paper "[Contrastive Learning Model for Wearable-based Ataxia Assessment.](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.02.28.25323114v1)"

## Acknowledgments
The model code is based on the implementation of the paper [TS2Vec: Towards Universal Representation of Time Series (AAAI 22)](https://github.com/zhihanyue/ts2vec), licensed under the MIT License.

## Requirements

* Python 3.9
* matplotlib==3.6.2
* numpy==1.23.5
* pandas==2.0.3
* PyYAML==6.0.2
* scikit_learn==1.2.0
* scipy==1.9.3
* seaborn==0.13.2
* tabulate==0.9.0
* torch==1.12.1


To install the dependencies, run:


```bash

pip install -r requirements.txt

```

## Data

The dataset is not publicly available due to privacy concerns and the requirement for IRB approval. 

Please contact us if you are interested in accessing the dataset.


## Usage


### Training the Contrastive Learning Model
Run the following command to train the contrastive learning model:


```
python train.py 
```

You can customize the training settings by modifying the configuration file in ```config.yaml```.



### Evaluation on Downstream Tasks
To evaluate the trained model on downstream tasks, such as ataxia severity assessment and classification of ataxia vs. healthy subjects, refer to: 

```
Downstream_task.ipynb
```

We also provided the trained models for each segment length, with five models (one for each fold in five-fold cross-validation) stored in the ```checkpoints``` folder.
